Please utilize the following worksheet to complete and submit your Elevator Pitch. You’ll be evaluated on your ability to deliver your elevator pitch within 30 seconds in your next coaching call alongside receiving live feedback from peers and your coaches. 


Outline


Start with Who You Are:

Open with a strong statement that grabs attention while reviewing your introduction basics. 
	I’m Moses and I’m 32 years young. I’m fond of music and technology which may explain why I’ve taken a liking to EDM. 
	Next talk about What You Do:

Communicate what you currently do and/or what you’re hoping to do by way of describing the current stage you are at. (i.e - enrolled in a bootcamp learning ___)
	As of today, I’m a full time stay-at-home dad and a part-time independent contractor. I have recently begun a journey with Springboard and enrolled in a Web Development Career Track with them, which also makes me a full time student.
	Describe your Value Add:

What makes you unique when you think about your background, current experience, and the new skills you’re acquiring and how you can be of service to others?
	What makes me unique is that I have worked in a variety of industries and thus, encountered a variety of types of people. This has been crucial in the sharpening of my communication skills. This also gives me insight into many different aspects of a business that others may not have. 
	Finish with your Call to Action:

Are you requesting an informational interview, or maybe you want to learn about their company? This is key to getting a response; have a specific call to action.
	I could have a lot to offer your company. I would be interested in getting to know more about it, as well as sharing more about myself. Let’s get something on the schedule and stay in contact until then. 
	Final Product

Now, create a cohesive short paragraph that incorporates your statements above. Make sure it can be verbalized within 30 seconds and submit this document once you’re done. 




Hi. I’m Moses. I’m a part time independent contractor, a full time stay at home dad and a full time student. I’m currently conquering the field of web development with Springboard’s online curriculum. I’ve worked in a variety of job fields and my experience has increased my level of communication and given me insights into many aspects of a business. I believe I could be a valuable aspect and would love to get to know your company better. When is a good time to meet with you?




